18 June 2022 Government advises the nation on the arrangements of the late King of amaMpondo, Zanozuko Tyelovuyo Sigcau who has been accorded a special official funeral Category 1 by President, Cyril Ramaphosa. King Zanozuko Tyelovuyo Sigcau was inaugurated as a King of the amaMponda Nation in 2018. During his tenure, he actively championed the development and progress of amaMpondo Kingdom, and united the people to become active citizens. King Zanozuko Tyelovuyo Sigcau was an activist, a sports enthusiast, and a cultural curator who played a significant role to make a difference in the lives of people through various initiatives to address the social issues such as Gender-Based Violence. Funeral status In line with this category, President Ramaphosa has instructed that the National Flag fly at half-mast at every flag station in the country from the morning of Wednesday, 15 June 2022, to the evening of the burial. Official memorial service Memorial service of the King Zanozuko Tyelovuyo Sigcau is scheduled to take place on Saturday, 18 June 2022 at Enqanaweni AFM church – 50 meters from Flagstaff square. The service will start at 10h00 in the morning. Funeral service The funeral service of King Zanozuko Tyelovuyo Sigcau will take place on Tuesday, 21 June 2022 at Flagstaff in the Eastern Cape Province.  The service will commence at 10h00am. His Excellency President Cyril Ramaphosa will deliver a eulogy. Condolence books Condolence books have been placed at various government and municipal buildings across the Eastern Cape Province. Members of the public, who would like to convey their message of condolences to the amaMpondo Kingdom, are encouraged to write their messages in the condolence books. The Condolences Books are at the following venues: Media accreditation Members of the media who have applied for accreditation will be at a later stage be advised about the details for collection of accreditation cards. Social media The social media campaign on Twitter and Facebook has already started and will run until Tuesday, 21 June 2022. Members of the public are requested to use the following accounts @GovZA on Twitter and the Government ZA Facebook page to pay tribute to the late King of amaMpondo. The official hashtag is #RIPKumkaniSigcau. Enquiries:Mr Ndlelantle PinyanaCell: 076 142 8606 Issued by Government Communications