18 May 2022 The Government Communication and Information System (GCIS) cordially invites you to participate in the Africa Communications Week is a week-long series of events in 20 countries across Africa. It will take place from 23 to 27 May 2022 under the theme: “Ahead of the Curve: What’s Next for Comms in Africa?” “It is an opportunity to promote African Unity and deeper integration and recommit Africa to a shared destiny,” said the Minister in The Presidency, Mondli Gungubele, at the post Cabinet briefing. Minister Gungubele will officially open the week alongside the African Union Head of Communications, Ebba Kolando. The communications festival will also feature presentations from Google journalists Initiative Studio, Facebook platforms, TikTok, Media Monitoring Africa, the Public Relations Institute of Southern Africa, and Research Insights by the GCIS and Brand SA. Africa Communications Week is observed annually during Africa Month, and it is a global campaign targeting and open to all communications professionals with African interests. The discussions during the Africa Communications Week for communication professionals and thought leaders will be looking at impacting the current narratives in Africa; accelerating communications through innovation, Africa Free Trade Area agreement communications and effective media platforms. The various themes to be discussed highlighting the acceleration of Africa Communications through new mediums and innovation will provide opportunities to examine how the communication profession can position itself and demonstrate its relevance as a fundamental management discipline that contributes significantly to Africa’s socio-economic rise. The sessions are scheduled as follows:Date: 23 to 27 May 2022Time: 10:00 to 16:00 CAT Venue: Constitution Hill, JohannesburgTo join online: A daily programme will be issued with a Zoom linkhttps://www.sanews.gov.za/south-africa/sa-marks-africa-month RSVP to Sinesipho Mbandazayo on Sinesipho@gcis.gov.za(link sends e-mail) or send a WhatsApp message to +27 73 579 6583. NB: Kindly indicate your day of attendance by Friday, 20 May 2022. For more information, contact Ayanda Hollow on holo@gcis.gov.za(link sends e-mail)  or +27 61 488 0634. Issued by: Government Communications